dbound charter

Various Internet protocols and applications require some mechanism for
determining whether two Domain Name System (DNS) names are related.  A
popular example is the need to determine whether example.com and
foo.example.com are related; though to humans the answer to this may be
obvious, it is difficult to establish this programatically since the
right answer is not always "compare the rightmost two labels".

The particular issue is that there is structure imposed by users and by the
domain name registration system that is independent of the architecture and
protocol upon which the DNS is built.

In the realm of email, there is a desire to map an arbitrary domain name to
the registered domain name somewhere in the tree above it, in order to
identify a deterministic location where some sort of statement of policy
regarding that domain name can be found.  With respect to the web, there
is a similar practice of identifying domains as related as long as they
share a common ancestor.  However, there is an additional need for the
capability to declare relationships between arbitrary names.

Previous work such as Author Domain Signing Practices (ADSP; RFC5617) and
Sender Policy Framework (SPF; RFC7008), and current work such as DMARC
(draft-kucherawy-dmarc-base), would certainly benefit from having this
capability.

Currently, the only solution in existence is maintained by a web browser
producer, known as the Public Suffix List.  This list, which is maintained
by volunteers on a best-effort basis, contains a list of points in the DNS
tree at which registrations take place.  When this list is inaccurate, it
exposes a deviation with reality that degrades service to some and can be
exploited by others.

The DBOUND working group will develop one or more solutions to this family
of problems.  If possible, a unified solution will be developed.  However,
the working group may discover that the email, web, and equivalence problems
require independent solutions, in which case the working group will follow
that path.  The solutions may or may not involve changes to the DNS, such
as creation of new resource record types; in any case, all such changes
will be incremental only.

This working group will not seek to amend the consumer protocols themselves
(i.e., any web or mail standards) without rechartering, and only after
completion of the base work.  Any such work undertaken in parallel will
need to be done as individual or independent submissions, or in another
working group.

Milestones:
- TBD

Co-chairs:
- TBD
